In this section of the course, we're going to discuss Ports and Protocols. Now, a Port is a virtual point of entry or exit for communications that can be used by software applications to exchange information. There are lots of different ports associated with our networks, and many of them use what are referred to as well-known ports. For example, if you want to access a website securely, you're simply going to visit the website over Port 443, and this is reserved for secure and encrypted web traffic. A Protocol on the other hand, is a set of rules and conventions for data exchange between network devices. These protocols ensure that data is being transmitted in a structured and predictable manner to allow our devices to understand and process information as it's being sent and received across the network. For example, we can choose to use Transmission Control Protocol or TCP, as a way to establish a reliable connection between our network clients, or we can use the IP, or Internet Protocol, to provide ratable IP addresses for our clients so we can determine where to send our packets when they're transmitting them over the network. These ports and protocols really are the essential building blocks that allow our network devices to connect and share data efficiently and securely over our different types of networks. Now in this section of the course, we're going to be covering Ports and Protocols. I'll be focused solely on Domain 1 Networking Concepts. Specifically, we'll be covering Objective 1.4, which states that you must be able to explain common networking ports, protocols, services, and traffic types. First, we're going to look at the fundamental concepts surrounding ports including the three different ranges of ports that we use in our networks. Well-known ports going from zero to 1023, registered ports going from 1024 to 49,151, and dynamic or private ports, going from 49,152, all the way up to 65,535. Then we're going to cover the Transmission Control Protocol. Next, we'll be discussing the User Datagram Protocol. After that, we'll explore the Internet Control Message Protocol. Then we'll discuss the different Web Ports and Protocols, including HTTP and HTTPS, which operate over Port 80 and Port 443. Next, we'll cover the different Email Ports and Protocols you need to know, including SMTP, POP3, and IMAP. SMTP is used for sending emails and it happens over Port 25. SMTPS is a secure version of this, and it operates over Port 587. POP3 is going to be used for receiving emails using Port 110, and IMAP is going to be used for receiving emails, and this time, we're going to do it over Port 143. After that, we'll discuss the different File Transfer Reports and Protocols, including FTP, SFTP, and TFTP. Now FTP is the File Transfer Protocol and it operates over Ports 20 and 21. Secure File Transfer Protocol operates over Port 22, and the Trivial File Transfer Protocol operates over Port 69. Then we're going to cover the different Remote Access Ports and Protocols, including SSH, Telnet and RDP. SSH or the Secure Shell is going to operate over Port 22. Telnet will operate on Port 23, and RDP, the Remote Desktop Protocol will operate on Port 3389. Next, we'll discuss Networking Service Ports and Protocols, including DNS, DHCP, SQL, SNMP, and Syslog. Now DNS or the Domain Name System operates. on Port 53. DHCP or the Dynamic Host Control Protocol operates on Ports 67 and 68, SQL or the Structured Query Language will operate on Port 1433, SNMP or the Simple Network Management Protocol operates over Ports 161 and 162, and Syslog will operate on Port 514. Then we're going to cover some Other Network Service Ports and Protocols, including things like NTP, SIP and LDAP. NTP or the Network Time Protocol is going to operate on Port 123, SIP, or the Session Initiation Protocol will operate on Ports 5060 and 5061, and LDAP or the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol will operate over Port 389, and the secure variant of LDAP known as LDAPS will operate over Port 636. After that, I'm going to show you how you can scan your network for open ports and protocols using the network mapping tool known as Nmap. And finally, we'll take a short quiz to see what you learned during this section of the course and review your answers to ensure you understand why things were right and why things were wrong. So if you're ready, let's get started with our coverage of Ports and Protocols in this section of the course.